# Recommender systems
---
* Weird description of the **dataset splits** (train/validation/test), 
  it is unclear which training data are used to fit the simulated 
  recommender system: is it $20\%$ of the raw data (Last.fm-MovieLens 
  reviews)? 
  Or is it $70\%$ of the (synthetic) ground truth preferences, where 
  only $20\%$ is uniformly sampled and the rest is set to $0$ (*current 
  implementation ad interim*)? If this is the case, and validation 
  is performed on $10\%$ of the masked ground truth preferences, what 
  do we do with the remaining masked $20\%$?
    * If the $20\%$ sampling from the ground truth options is the 
      case, should we sample uniformly or uniformly *per user*?
* **Recommender evaluation metric**: it is not specified which 
   metric is used to evaluate a recommender (validation); we set 
   on using the metrics provided by 
   `implicit.evaluation.ranking_metrics_at_k`: *map*, *precision*, *auc*, *ndcg*. 
   Moreover, the paper does not report evaluation performance for 
   the recommenders.
* **Same model to generate true labels and predictions**: it is 
  mentioned that both the ground truth preferences and the 
  recommender's preference are generated by matrix factorization \+ 
  matrix completion. This could be a weakness of the experimental 
  setup, as using the same model to generate truths and predictions 
  could create uncontrolled correlations between labels and 
  predictions.
* **Best** recommender/ground truth **hyperparameters** not provided.

## Questions
---
1. Should we do any input normalization/de-meaning? (Gabri)
2. Temperature in softmax policies:
   > [...] evaluate a softmax policy with inverse temperature set 
   > to 5. (Section 5.1)
   
   Does this mean that the temperature $\tau$ is $\tau=5$ or $\tau=\frac{1}{5}$? A high 
   temperature makes the model less confident, a low one ($<1$) makes 
   more confident. I would think that $\tau=5$ for the recommender 
   policies, and that $\tau=\frac{1}{5}$ for the ground truth ones, but "inverse 
   temperature" is mentioned in both cases. What should we use? 
   (Marco)